Travelling overseas for a holiday soon? 
 After settling your flight tickets and accommodation, the next most important thing you should get is… 
 Travel insurance . 
 “Need  meh … Got so  suay  (Hokkien: unlucky) or not?” 
 Source: giphy 
 Well… all I can say is, anything can happen. 
 So it never hurts to have a  little  insurance. 
 
 TL;DR: Travel Insurance Guide Singapore 2019 
 Looking to buy the  best travel insurance  policy? 
 Make sure you have the  basics  covered like: 
 
 accidents 
 loss or damages 
 medical expenses 
 travel inconvenience 
 
 For  more assurance , look out for these benefits: 
 
 indemnity for accidents 
 emergency evacuation 
 overseas medical expenses 
 terrorism cover 
 travel disruption, travel delay, and missed connection 
 
 Ultimately, make sure you get  comprehensive coverage  and  don’t just   buy the cheapest travel insurance  for your travels! 
 
 So… Should I Just Get The Cheapest Travel Insurance And Be Done With It? 
 No. 
 I mean, it’s always nice if travel insurance premiums are discounted during a promotion or sale. 
 BUT it’s  never a good idea to buy a policy just because it’s cheap . 
 You shouldn’t just spring for the most expensive coverage available either – the one with all the bells and whistles, like protection against accidents during extreme sports – when you’re only going across the Causeway for some weekend  makan  and shopping. 
 As with most things in life, you have to exercise prudence. 
 But most importantly, you really shouldn’t be buying travel insurance just for the sake of having ‘protection’. 
 In fact, I’m sure many of us have been (or are still) guilty of blindly buying our travel insurance thinking that it’ll cover us for any mishap. 
 Only to realise when making a claim that we aren’t actually covered for a lot of things. 
 What Does Travel Insurance Cover? 
 
 A good  travel insurance  policy should cover you for a myriad of situations. 
 These should range from small inconveniences like a flight delay. 
 To needing immediate medical evacuation and attention, after getting bitten by a venomous snake while hiking up a mountain trail.  
 Some of the more commonly covered situations include: 
 
 Flight delays or cancellations 
 Loss or damage to personal belongings 
 Loss of travel documents 
 Medical expenses 
 Personal accident or accidental death 
 
 This list is obviously not exhaustive but you get the picture. 
 Basically, you want a policy which covers you for  basics  like: 
 
 accidents 
 loss or damages 
 medical expenses 
 travel inconvenience 
 
 What Kind Of Travel Insurance Coverage Do I Need? 
 To put it simply, the coverage of your travel insurance should be  as comprehensive as you can get . 
 While travelling is about discovering the world and embracing the unexpected, a robust travel insurance plan will provide you with a  sense of security  while you explore the great unknown. 
 Besides the basics mentioned earlier, here’re just some examples of what to look out for when buying travel insurance for your next vacation: 
 Double Indemnity For Accidents 
 
 A typical travel insurance policy will cover you for personal accidents. 
 But if you plan on going on a self-drive road trip in a foreign land with higher speed limits, or plan to take public transportation in a country with a high accident rate. 
 You might want to consider getting travel insurance which pays  double indemnity  for  road accidents  or while  on public conveyance . 
 Just to make sure that you’re well-protected. 
 Emergency Evacuation 
 
 If you’re wondering why you would ever need  emergency evacuation . 
 Imagine having a medical emergency overseas, which requires you to be flown back to Singapore for medical treatment. 
 Or having to be rescued from a terrorist attack in a foreign country. 
 Call me  kiasu  but I’d rather have the option for evacuation when I’m in a pinch (touchwood) and need to get out as soon as humanly possible. 
 As evacuation would usually involve a medical flight or an air ambulance, so you can expect that the cost for such repatriation services is definitely going to be ridiculously expensive. 
 This means that when you’re getting evacuation cover, make sure that your travel insurance policy  claim limits are high enough . 
 And be sure to check if your insurer has certain exclusions for things like  pre-existing conditions . 
 Because if you need evacuation after suffering from a heart attack, your insurer might not allow you to make a claim if you already declared that you have a history of heart-related medical conditions. 
 Overseas Medical Expenses 
 
 Overseas medical expenses can be astronomical, especially in countries where the standards of living are higher, like Europe or Japan. 
 Whether it’s food poisoning or something a little more serious which requires hospitalisation. 
 You’ll definitely rest a little easier if you know that you have ready access to medical care IF you need it – without worrying about the cost. 
 In fact, some countries like  Russia  make it  compulsory for visitors to have a health insurance policy  (minimum coverage of RUB 100,000 or SGD$2,125) regardless of your purpose of visit. 
 With the policy, you can receive free medical attention based on the amount of insurance coverage you have. 
 If you do not have health insurance or your insurance amount is less than the stipulated minimum, you’ll be charged a fine of up to RUB 7,000 (SGD$149)… 
 As a guide, the typical claim limit for overseas medical coverage is  $200,000 . 
 But it’s always good to have a travel insurance policy with a  higher overseas medical coverage limit  for those  long-distance travel plans . 
 Terrorism Cover 
 
 We often take security for granted as  Singapore is one of the safest cities in the world . 
 However, the same can’t be said for every country or city you plan to visit. 
 And in this current climate, Law and Home Affairs Minister K Shanmugam is right when he said that it’s  “a matter of “when” and not “if” a terror attack hits” . 
 So if you’re planning to travel somewhere a little more exotic, or where security might be a little lax… 
 Getting terrorism cover is pretty much a must. 
 And while we’re on this, most insurers would have a  list of countries which they deem as being too dangerous or risky  that they  will not insure  your travels there. 
 Some of these countries include: 
 
 Cuba 
 Iran 
 Iraq 
 Nepal 
 North Korea 
 Sudan 
 Syria 
 
 It’s important to note that insurers  can refuse your claim  even if the country you travelled to does not appear on these blacklists. 
 As long as it can be reasonably considered to be a bad idea to visit. 
 For instance, Hong Kong, where the Ministry Of Foreign Affairs has issued an advisory to Singaporeans to  defer non-essential travel . 
 Which is why you’ll want to check with your insurer before committing to any travel insurance policy with a terrorism cover. 
 Oh, and if you want extra assurance. 
 Be sure to ask about coverage for  nuclear, chemical or biological weapons . 
 Travel Disruption, Travel Delay, And Missed Connection 
 
 Flight delays and cancellations happen more often than you realise. 
 The same thing applies to trains and bus connections too. 
 These major forms of overseas transportation can be disrupted by natural disasters or even union strikes (think: countries in the US or Europe). 
 And they might also be delayed due to weather or other unforeseen circumstances. 
 Getting a travel insurance policy which compensates you adequately for any disruption, delay or missed connection could be the difference between you being stranded for hours at the airport. 
 And you being able to wait in comfort, while you seek alternative forms of transportation in order to catch your next flight or travel connection. 
 Note: pay attention to how long a policy defines a ‘delay’. Most travel insurance policies typically quantify it as  more than 6 hours . 
 Should I Buy Single Trip Or Annual Travel Insurance? 
 
 If you’re a frequent traveller or your work requires you to travel often,  annual travel insurance  might be worth considering because: 
 
 you pay a  flat premium  which provides coverage for an entire year, starting from the date your policy comes into effect 
 you don’t have to  waste time filling out your details  buying multiple, single-trip travel insurance policies 
 it  might be cheaper  depending on how often and how far you travel 
 
 Naturally, you’ll still want to make sure that you get comprehensive travel insurance coverage. 
 So apply the same discretion as you would when it comes to buying a single trip travel insurance. 
 When Should I Buy Travel Insurance? 
 
 You should  buy your travel insurance as soon as you’ve planned your trip . 
 Or if you want to be safer, just in case travel plans fall apart, buy it once you’ve purchased your flight tickets. 
 I mean, you’re not going to cancel your flight tickets right? 
 The fact that you can  buy your travel insurance online  also means that there’s really no reason why you should wait till the last minute. 
 And the reason why you should purchase your policy as soon as possible is so that you  can   maximise the coverage  of your policy. 
 Not that we necessarily want to, of course… 
 But think about this: imagine booking your vacation package with a  tour agency that goes out of business  the week before your holiday. 
 If you haven’t bought your travel insurance, you’re looking at money lost and having to spend even more money on last-minute flight bookings and accommodation – if you still wish to go on your holiday, that is. 
 The same applies to  flight cancellations  if your travel destination suddenly cancels all inbound flights due to a deadly natural disaster like a tsunami. 
 What Is The Best Travel Insurance For Me? 
 As overseas travel has become a norm, most travel insurance policies in the market are pretty similar in terms of coverage. 
 We’ve also established that buying the cheapest travel insurance is also not the best option. 
 So how do you pick the  best travel insurance  after you’ve done your comparison? 
 Why not read real user reviews on  Seedly  to find out what others have to say about their  first-hand experience with the insurer ? 
 
 By clicking on any of the listed travel insurance policies, you’ll be able to see what our Seedly community has to say about their  personal experience  with the travel insurance insurer. 
 
 You can even  sort and read reviews based on specific keywords , which most users who purchase travel insurance would be interested in, like: 
 
 claim progress 
 easy claim 
 customer service 
 
 This way, you can find out how easy the claims process is like for the travel insurance you’re planning to get. 
 As well as how friendly or helpful the customer service experience has been like for other travellers who have purchased the travel insurance you’re planning to buy! 
 Had A Great Or Bad Experience With Your Travel Insurance? 
 Bought a travel insurance policy and enjoyed an easy claims process? 
 Had questions about your claims and received fantastic customer service from your insurer? 
 Just want to complain about a lousy travel insurance policy or want to warn others to avoid making the same mistakes as you did? 
 Why not leave a review on  Seedly Reviews  to help other fellow travellers make a better decision! 
 Other Related Articles 
 
 Ultimate Singapore Malaysia Land VTL (Vaccinated Travel Lane) Guide: Bus Ticket Prices, PCR Tests Costs & More! 
 Ultimate Guide To Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTLs): Costs, Things To Do and What To Take Note Of 
 Flying to Korea via VTLs? What Costs To Expect When You Want To Curb That K-craze! 
 An Ultimate Guide: Key Insurance Policies You Should Get In Singapore 2022 
 Student Exchange Insurance Plans: Should I Add-On To My School’s Insurance? 
 Which Countries Can We Travel to When COVID-19 Restrictions Ease? 
 Air Travel Bubbles, Air Travel Passes & Reciprocal Green Lanes: Where Can I Travel Overseas Right Now? 
 Best Travel Insurance With COVID-19 Medical Coverage: What To Choose For My Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) Getaway? 
 Best Travel Insurance in Singapore (2023): Find The Best One For Your Needs 
 
 Leave Your Travel Insurance Review N 

https://blog.seedly.sg/travel-insurance-guide-singapore/