Regardless of what your friends tell you, it’s  compulsory  to get  travel insurance  for your school exchange programme or overseas internship. 
 We simply cannot emphasise the importance of travel insurance enough. 
 Why? 
 Think of it this way: You’re going to be away from home for a long while. And you’re excited to finally be able to escape your mom’s incessant nagging and have all the fun you want in a foreign land… 
 BUT REALITY CHECK.  
 You have to learn how to take care of yourself when things aren’t so smooth sailing – like what if your washing machine is down? 
 Or worse. What if you get food poisoning? Or somehow sprain your back after going skydiving? Where do you go? And how will you afford all that treatment? 
 Source: @thedryginger | Instagram 
 And these are just some reasons  WHY  you should insure yourself for your school overseas exchange programme or overseas internship. Can you imagine losing your laptop or missing your flight? ? 
 
 Benefits To Consider When Choosing An Insurance Plan For Overseas Exchange 
 We asked for quotations* based on 6 months overseas exchange in Toronto, Canada, and here’s what we got: 
 
 
 
     Basic Additional 
 
 
 
 
 Price Major Events  
(E.g. Accidental Death, TPD) Medical Expenses/ Bills Loss/ Damage of Belongings Exam Delay Cover Leisure Activities Personal Travel Coverage Study Interruptions 
 
 
 NUS N.A. S$250,000 S$250,000  
($50 excess/visit) Yes No No No No 
 
 
 NTU S$257 S$250,000 S$275,000 Yes No No Yes No 
 
 
 SMU N.A. S$50,000 S$250,000 Yes No No No No 
 
 
 SIT N.A. S$250,000 S$250,000 Yes No No No No 
 
 
 SUTD Ask for quotation S$250,000 S$300,000 Yes No No No No 
 
 
 Income Singapore S$538 S$200,000 S$50,000 Yes No Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 STA S$337 S$200,000 S$200,000 Yes Yes Yes Yes No 
 
 
 MSIG S$525 S$150,000 S$50,000 Yes No Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 DBS/POSB S$517 S$200,000 S$20,000 Yes No Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 
 *Figures are rounded up to the nearest dollar 
 1. Basic Coverage That You MUST Have 
 
 
 
 Coverage Type More Details on Coverage 
 
 
 
 
 Covers MAJOR events • Death 
• Permanent and Total Disablement (TPD) 
• Emergency Medical Evacuation (To transport your body back to SG) 
 
 
 Covers medical expenses • Hospital bills 
• General Practitioner (GP) bills 
• Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) bills, and etc 
 
 
 
 Medical bills  refer to all the bills that you might incur from doctor visits for anything from fever, flu, to food poisoning, and etc. 
 This is the typical insurance package that comes with your school’s existing coverage. And it only covers the basic benefits like death coverage and medical bills coverage – all the must-haves. 
 
 2. Additional Coverage That Is GOOD TO Have 
 Here’s a list of other benefits which you might want to consider depending on say… How likely you are to lose your laptop… Or even if you’re planning to take day trips out during the weekend to nearby cities and towns to explore. 
 
 
 
 Coverage Type More Details On Coverage 
 
 
 
 
 Loss or damage of your valuables Get to claim for loss or damage of your valuables (e.g. your laptop etc.) 
 
 
 Exam delay cover* If your exams have been rescheduled beyond your control and clashes with your travel plans, then you will be covered for the costs that you might incur as a result of having to change your travel plans!  Cool aye?! 
 
 
 Coverage for leisure activities* Leisure activities such as scuba-diving, sky diving, extreme sports etc. 
 
 
 Personal travel coverage If you are planning to travel to other places around the city you're at for your exchange programme 
 
 
 Study interruptions If you are unable to continue with the exchange programme due to situations where you need to be hospitalised 
 
 
 
 Insurers like STA and Income Singapore offer some of these additional benefits as an add-on to the insurance coverage that your school provides you with. If any of these perks caught your eye, maybe that’s where you could start your research from. 
 *Note: Not offered by Income Singapore. 
 Source: giphy 
 Do I Really Need To Get Insurance If I Go On Overseas Exchange Or Internship? 
 According to the various schools’ websites, it is compulsory for all students to have a travel insurance plan in force before being able to travel for official school purposes. 
 So Am I Already Covered Or Do I Need To Get Insurance On My Own? 
 Assuming that you’re going on a 6 months overseas exchange in Toronto, Canada, here’s a look at the premiums you’d have to pay if you’re a student at the following schools: 
 
 
 
 School's Insurance Provider Premiums Quoted (S$) 
 
 
 
 
 NUS Student Travel Insurance Already covered 
 
 
 NTU TravelSure S$257 
 
 
 SMU Student Travel Insurance Already covered 
 
 
 SIT Group Travel Insurance Already covered 
 
 
 SUTD Travel Insurance Have to ask for quotation 
 
 
 
 For most schools, you would fall under the ‘ Already Covered ‘ category. In other words, you are covered under the school’s Group Insurance  as long as you are officially travelling with the school . 
 However, for students of NTU, SUTD, SIM, and SUSS, you have to opt-in with the school’s insurance provider or look for one on your own. 
 FYI to all SIM students: SIM GE has insurance coverage for all their students but it does not cover you when you are out of Singapore for more than 90 days. 
 
 
 
 Things to note: 
 
 
 
 
 1 You may be required to  purchase additional insurance  if it is required by your host university 
 
 
 2 For  personal trips  within your exchange –  request for coverage extension  for personal deviation beyond 60 days or get additional insurance coverage for your personal trips.  
(For schools that already covers their students who are travelling officially under the school's programme) 
 
 
 
 
 Student Exchange Insurance Plans In The Market 
 If you’re looking for  something with more extensive coverage  as compared to what your school has offered, there are only a handful of places where you are able to look at. Again, the following quotations are based on 6 months overseas exchange in Toronto, Canada: 
 
 
 
 Insurance Provider Premium Quoted 
 
 
 
 
 Income Singapore - Overseas Student Protection Plan S$538 
 
 
 STA Travel - Student Travel Insurance S$337 
 
 
 MSIG - Global Study Insurance S$524.30 
 
 
 DBS Bank  /  POSB Bank  - Chubb Overseas Student Protect S$516.80 
 
 
 
 Source: knowyourmeme 
 So What’s The Diff Between Travel Insurance And Student Exchange Insurance? 
 Student exchange-type travel insurances usually have very student-specific benefits such as Exam Delay Cover, which you wouldn’t need if you’re just travelling for leisure. 
 So if you already have an  Annual Travel Insurance  and are going for overseas exchange or an internship, you might want to: 
 
 Check if there is any trip specific coverage that is lacking in your current plan 
 Opt-in for  additional benefits  as listed above, that you think you’ll need for your student life and needs in a foreign land 
 
 Other Related Articles 
 
 Ultimate Singapore Malaysia Land VTL (Vaccinated Travel Lane) Guide: Bus Ticket Prices, PCR Tests Costs & More! 
 Ultimate Guide To Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTLs): Costs, Things To Do and What To Take Note Of 
 Flying to Korea via VTLs? What Costs To Expect When You Want To Curb That K-craze 
 Which Countries Can We Travel to When COVID-19 Restrictions Ease? 
 Air Travel Bubbles, Air Travel Passes & Reciprocal Green Lanes: Where Can I Travel Overseas Right Now? 
 Best Travel Insurance With COVID-19 Medical Coverage: What To Choose For My Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) Getaway? 
 Things To Look Out For When Buying Travel Insurance 
 Cheat Sheet: Best Travel Insurance Guide In Singapore 2022 
 Ultimate Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Insurance Guide: Does My Travel Insurance Cover Me For The Wuhan Coronavirus Outbreak? 
 

https://blog.seedly.sg/student-exchange-insurance-plan/