Personal finance  involves managing your Income, Spending, Insurance, Savings, and  Investments . 
 If you are reading this now, you are probably looking to invest to grow your money. 
 With the  core inflation rate at  1.51%  in Singapore on average, investing sounds more attractive than the  meager 0.05%  interest earned in your  savings account . 
 Are You Ready to Invest? 
 You are if you  check all these points ! 
 
 
 Have paid off  high-interest debt 
 Have enough  insurance coverage 
 Have spare cash (i.e after accounting for 6 months of  emergency funds ) 
 Have an investing horizon of 5 years or more 
 Ready to do your own due diligence and research 
 
 You may have stumbled upon some financial blogs online. 
 Or you may have read some of Seedly’s blog posts and feel inspired to start investing. 
 Regardless of how promising a certain investment may sound… 
 Always, ALWAYS  do your own due diligence . 
 If that wasn’t clear enough,  YOU NEED TO FULLY UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU ARE INVESTING IN. 
 Once you’ve done all the research, you are then ready to invest and get returns higher than the inflation rate (and even more)! 
 And you  shouldn’t procrastinate and put off investing for another time  (which may never come).  
 First Things First: How To Open A CDP Account & Choose A Brokerage? 
 Before we even talk about what to invest in. 
 You need a CDP and brokerage account for most of the investments that I’ll be talking about. 
 Learn  what a CDP account  is  and how to  open your own CDP account . 
 
 We’ll even help you to figure out which is the  best online brokerage  to use. 
 
 CDP vs Custodian Account? Which Should I Use and Why? 
 Ultimate Cheatsheet: Cheapest Stock Trading/ Brokerage House In Singapore 
 Cheapest Online Brokerages in Singapore Compared: IBKR vs moomoo vs Tiger Brokers vs uSmart 
 How to Use a Broker: A Step-by-Step Guide to Investing Terms Explained for Dummies 
 Real User Reviews On Online Brokerage 
 
 
 
 TL;DR: A Singaporean’s Guide To Investing for Beginners 
 Click on me to go to the relevant section! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Guide to Low-Risk Investments 
 For: Low risk; Individuals who are risk-averse and want high liquidity. 
 If you want virtually risk-free investments backed by the Singapore government: 
 
 Guide to Singapore Savings Bond (SSB) and How to Buy  – decade-long bond with flexible redemption and decent interest 
 Guide to Treasury Bills (T-Bills) and How to Buy  – six-month or one-year treasury bills with typically higher interest than SSB but less liquidity 
 Guide to Singapore Government Securities (SGS) Bonds and How to Buy  – bonds with varying tenors 
 
 Here are other  low-risk investments  that you can consider: 
 
 Back to top 
 Guide to Exchange Traded Funds 
 For: Medium risk; Individuals who want to diversify at lower costs. 
 An  Exchange Traded Fund (ETF)  usually tracks an index or a pool of many companies.  
 
 Investing in an ETF gives you a small stake in many different companies and is more cost-effective than investing in 30 different companies individually. 
 
 A Beginner’s Guide On How To Invest in ETFs in Singapore 
 ETFs in Singapore (SGX): What Investors Should Know 
 How To Choose The Right Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) To Invest In? 
 STI ETF: A Simple Way To Invest In Singapore’s Top 30 Companies 
 Best U.S. ETFs 
 A Dummies Guide To Investing In Ireland-Domiciled S&P 500 ETFs 
 Popular ETFs Listed in Hong Kong  
 The Ultimate Compilation of Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs) 
 
 Back to top 
 Guide to Regular Savings Plan 
 For: Medium risk; Individuals who want to cultivate the habit of investing monthly. 
 A regular savings plan or  regular shares savings plan (RSSP)  is an investment plan that allows you to invest a small and fixed amount of money (as low as S$50) into a particular investment product on a monthly basis. 
 
 
 Working Adults: Easiest Ways To Invest A Monthly Sum For Beginners 
 Which Regular Shares Savings (RSS) Plan Is The Cheapest? DBS vs OCBC vs PhillipCapital 
 
 Back to top 
 Guide to Robo Advisors  
 For: Medium risk; Individuals who want to cultivate the habit of investing monthly. 
 Robo advisors  are digital platforms that provide investment services with little to no human supervision. They usually invest in instruments like ETFs, unit trusts (or mutual funds), and bonds. 
 They will help to build and manage your investment portfolio based on your risk profile and investment goals in a low-cost and passive manner.  
 
 
 A Dummy’s Guide to Investing in Robo Advisors 
 Best Robo Advisors Comparison Guide: Stashaway vs Syfe vs Endowus & More 
 Best Digital Wealth Management Services: SaxoWealthCare vs Endowus vs MoneyOwl 
 Robo-Advisor vs Financial Advisor: Which Is Better? 
 Robo Advisors Singapore: 6 Reasons Why You Should Invest With Robos And 3 Reasons Why You Should Not 
 Robo Advisors Returns Revealed: StashAway, Endowus, Syfe, Kristal.AI and More! 
 
 
 Back to top 
 Guide to Stocks Investing 
 For: High Risk; Individuals who are risk-seeking and want more than just to beat inflation. 
 Common Myth: “High Risk, High Returns”? 
 Truth:  High Risks ≠ High Returns . 
 Higher risks can POTENTIALLY give you higher returns, but know that it is  not  always an equal sign. The potential for upside returns is also the potential for downside returns. 
 Be prepared that your capital can turn to zero if the company goes bust. But of course, if it goes well, your initial capital can also grow to a lot more. 
 What Are Stocks? 
 Stocks  (also known as shares or equities) are a type of investment available on the stock market that gives you part ownership of a listed company. 
 
 To know about the various jargon used in the  stock market , here’s a  “What Is” compilation  just for you.  
 On that page, you can know what the various terms such as “dividend yield”, “P/E ratio” and “market capitalisation” mean.  
 Different Categories of Investing 
 There are three main types of stocks: value stocks, growth stocks, and dividend stocks? What do they mean and which is suitable for you? 
 
 Dividend Stocks vs Growth Stocks vs Value Stocks: Which Is the Best Investment Strategy for You? 
 New to Investing? Here Are The Best Investing Strategies You Need to Learn Before Investing 
 
 Once you have learnt the basic terms of investing and the different categories of investors out there, you would want to look into the language of business, which is accounting.  
 You now need to know how to analyse  financial statements  to pick stocks.   
 How To Read Financial Statements 
 
 The first step to understanding a stock? Learning how to read their financial statements. Here is a walk-through of the 3 financial statements, simplified with explanations using a fictitious company, Seedly Chicken Rice! 
 
 How to Read the Income Statement  
 How to Read the Balance Sheet 
 How to Read the Cash Flow Statement 
 
 Reading Company Annual Reports 
 A company’s annual report is like a student’s report card. 
 
 It has information about the company, such as its business profile, the management team, and its financial statements. 
 Investors need to know how to read an annual report to make informed decisions about the company they have part-ownership in. 
 
 How to Read a Company’s Annual Report Like a Pro 
 
 How to Make the Most out of Annual General Meetings 
 Companies hold their annual general meetings (AGMs) once every financial year. Attending AGMs is one of the ways for shareholders to evaluate the management of a company, an important aspect when it comes to stock-picking. 
 
 Here’s How to Make the Most Out of a Company’s AGM 
 
 How To Read Financial Ratios 
 The  “What Is” compilation  comes in handy for you here again to understand the various financial ratios. 
 
 Profit Margin, Dividend Yield & ROE, ROA, ROIC 
 P/B, P/E ratios & Quick Ratio, D/E Ratio, Interest Coverage Ratio 
 Value Investing: 5 Things To Look Out For In A Company 
 
 Picking the Best Stocks 
 Now that you know the basics, let’s learn how to pick individual stocks for your portfolio.  
 The following guides will help you to pick the best stocks listed on the stock market:  
 
 The Ultimate Beginner’s Guide to Picking Your First Stock 
 Here’s How You Can Pick Great Stocks Just Like Warren Buffett 
 Economic Moats Explained: What to Look out for When Investing in Companies 
 Here’s How to Pick Strong Dividend Companies That Can Survive Recessions 
 Investing Cheat Sheet: How To Pick the Best Technology Stocks To Invest In 
 Want to Discover Great Stocks? Here Are 7 of the Best Free Stock Screeners to Try in 2020 
 
 For those who want to be introduced to some of the companies available in the Singapore stock market, you can start off with the  Straits Times Index  (STI).  
 The STI is home to 30 of the largest and most liquid companies in Singapore, such as CapitaLand, DBS, and Singapore Airlines.  
 Here’s an  introduction  to each of the index stocks in just 60 seconds! 
 We also have in-depth analyses and guides on non-STI and overseas stocks as well: 
 
 The Ultimate Singaporean Guide To Investing In FAANG Stocks (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and Google) 
 A Singaporean Guide to Buying US Stocks With the Cheapest Brokerages 
 
 If you are thirsty for more investing knowledge, you can check out these  10 investing books !  
 
 Back to top 
 Guide to Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) 
 For: High Risk; Individuals who are risk-seeking and want to receive good distribution yields. 
 REITs  basically pool money from investors to invest in a portfolio of income-generating real estate assets. 
 
 Here’s everything you need to know about REITs and choosing the best ones: 
 
 Working Adults: Guide to REITs Investing in Singapore 
 Understanding REITs Better: What Makes Up a Typical REIT Structure? 
 REIT Jargon 101: Commonly-Used Terms That REIT Investors Must Know 
 Cheat Sheet: How to Pick the Best Singapore REITs to Invest In 
 REIT ETFs: The Ultimate Singaporean Guide to Investing in ‘Em 
 Seedly REITs Tool: A FREE One-Stop Resource to Help You Invest in REITs 
 
 Back to top 
 Guide to Alternative Investments, Including Cryptocurrencies 
 Some of these investments (such as P2P lending and cryptocurrencies) can be very risky. So do bear that in mind before investing in them.  
 
 P2P Lending Platforms Comparison 
 A Singaporean’s Guide: How To Invest In Gold   
 Guide to Commodity Investing 
 Are Luxury Branded Watches a Good Investment? 
 
 When it comes to cryptocurrencies, MAS strongly discourages investing in cryptocurrencies and has deemed that they are not suitable investments for the public.  
 But for those of you who are still keen, here are some helpful guides: 
 
 Cryptocurrencies: Here’s Everything You Need To Know 
 A Beginner’s Guide: How to Buy Bitcoin And Other Cryptocurrencies in Singapore 
 Crypto Cold Wallet Guide: Here’s How To Store Your Cryptocurrency Safely 
 
 
 Strengthening the Investor Mindset 
 Investing is all about the long-term. 
 You should be disciplined and stay the course during market volatility, which is a norm when it comes to investing.  
 Most importantly, you need to have a sound investment strategy. Here are some useful articles to help you out: 
 
 How Much Investment Risk Should You Take as You Grow Older? 
 Practical Tips on Investing During the Stock Market Volatility 
 Here’s How to Invest Well over the Long-Term (Includes Views from Warren Buffett) 
 3 Warren Buffett Quotes To Keep Us Sane During the Current Stock Market Crash 
 How to 6X an Investment Portfolio: Lessons From How Temasek Invests 
 $12,000 Dividend Per Year: Here’s How Much You Need To Invest! 
 Budget 2023 Singapore Summary 
 
 Have Burning Questions Surrounding Investments? 
 Why not check out our  community  on Seedly and participate in the lively discussion about all things money! 
 Disclaimer: The information provided by Seedly serves as an educational piece and is not intended to be personalised investment advice. ​Readers should always do their own due diligence and consider their financial goals before investing in any stock. The writer may have a vested interest in the companies mentioned. 
 Read More 
 
 Best Credit Cards in Singapore 
 Best Travel Insurance in Singapore 
 Best Travel Insurance in Singapore (2023): Find The Best One For Your Needs 
 

https://blog.seedly.sg/ultimate-personal-finance-guide-to-investing-singapore/