So recently, a friend told me that while she was waiting for her flight, she received a notice that her flight was delayed due to adverse weather conditions. 
 She ended up having to wait at the airport for  more than eight hours . 
 I asked her if she made any travel insurance claims and… 
 She said she thought  travel insurance  was only made for baggage losses… 
 Source: Tenor  
 Yep, this is why I’ve decided to write an article to help travellers learn how to make a  travel insurance  claim. 
 The process is not too difficult but… it can be slightly  leceh  (troublesome). 
 However, if you’ve prepared beforehand, it’s actually quite straightforward. 
 Let’s dive into the common travel insurance claims and a step-by-step guide on how you can make your claim! 
 
 TL;DR: A Step-by-Step Guide On Making A Travel Insurance Claim 
 
 Click here to jump: 
 
 Common travel insurance claims and how long it takes to make one? 
 Step-by-step guide on how to make a travel insurance claim 
 What is not covered by travel insurance and what to do if my claim is rejected? 
 
 
 Common Travel Insurance Claims 
 Let’s face it, unexpected situations always occur when we’re travelling. 
 This can be as soon as you’ve reached your destination – a piece of damaged luggage. 
 This is why travel insurance exists, and you should start shopping for  tips in getting one . 
 For your convenience, this is a list of common travel insurance claims made: 
 
 Lost or damaged baggage 
 Loss of personal belongings 
 Flight delays 
 Flight cancellation 
 Luggage delayed 
 Medical expenses / personal accidents 
 Cancellation for COVID-19 if you or your travel companion get COVID-19 (we’ll talk about this in the next section). 
 
 How Long Is The Claim Process? 
 Source: GIPHY 
 Typically, it would take about  one to four weeks  for the claims to be processed. 
 If it’s been more than two weeks, you can reach out to your insurer to check the status of the claim, if they’ve received all your supporting documents, and if there’s anything you’ve missed out that they would require for processing. 
 Back to top 
 
 How Do You Make a Travel Insurance Claim 
 This is a step-by-step guide to help you make your travel insurance claim. 
 Step 1: Keep a Copy of Your Insurance Policy on your Phone 
 Before you travel, save a copy of the policy on your phone for easier viewing! 
 Yup, this can help you wrap your head around the terms and conditions and understand what’s covered. 
 Step 2: Take Photos of Your Luggage And Personal Belonging 
 Source: Giphy 
 Since luggage and personal belongings-related claims are the most common, taking photos of them before your trip can be helpful to show the extent of the damage. 
 This will be very handy as you can show the “before” and “after” if your items were damaged. 
 Step 3: Prepare Any Supporting Documents Beforehand 
 For medical-related discharge summaries or memos, you will have to apply online directly on the hospital’s website, or email one. 
 Do note that there are usually fees incurred with such comprehensive reports detailing the medical incident. 
 This is a brief look at the type of supporting documents required: 
 
 
 
 Types of Claim Supporting Documents 
 
 
 
 
 Loss of Personal Belongings - Purchase invoice (best if original) 
- Property loss irregularity report 
- Police report of lost items  
- Warranty card (if any) 
 
 
 Damaged Personal Belongings - Original photo of the belonging (if any) 
- Photos of the damaged objects 
- A repairer's diagnostic report outlining the kind and extent of the damage 
- A repair bill or invoice 
- Warranty card (if any) 
 
 
 Delay of Baggage Written acknowledgement from the airline or baggage carrier that there was a delay, the delay period and when the baggage was returned  
 
 
 Travel Cancellation  Written acknowledgement from the airline or baggage carrier that there was a delay, the delay period, advice on hotel accommodation confirmation or travel deposit receipt 
 
 
 Travel Cancellation (if death or sickness is the cause) Death certificate (if in time), proof of relationship with the affected party, medical diagnosis to prove that the affected person is not suitable to travel 
 
 
 Travel Disruptions Including Flight Delays, Overbooking etc. Written acknowledgements from the airline or carrier, the amount refunded and any additional charges 
 
 
 Rental Vehicle-related Expenses In cases of accidents, provide photographs of the evidence and police report, the excess and repair payment receipt and bills 
 
 
 Medical Expenses / Personal Accident - Medical bills and receipts (best if original) 
- A discharge statement that includes the date, nature, and cause of the injury or illness 
- A police report (for accidents) 
 
 
 Personal Liability Third-party letter of claim (also known as  Letter of Demand ) or documents and documentary proof to show damage made to the third-party's property (e.g. photograph). 
 
 
 

 Step 4: Contact Your Insurance Company As Soon As Possible 
 The time limit for giving the insurance company a written notice of your claim is usually 30 days. 
 Try not to go beyond this period especially when more parties are involved, in cases of hospitalisation and police involvement. 
 Step 5: Download and Fill Out the Travel Insurance Claim Forms 
 You can download these claim forms from the insurance company’s website. 
 Do make sure that you’ve chosen the correct form and what you’re claiming for, especially in cases where there’s a mixture of incidents. For example, a flight delay, followed by a cancellation etc. 
 Try not to leave any blanks as this would mean that the process might take a while. 
 Step 6: Submitting Your Documents 
 This is usually done either online, in-person or via mail. 
 It’s usually easier to do it online because… 
 Source: Giphy 
 It’s the most convenient. 
 Back to top 
 
 Claiming Travel Insurance Due to COVID-19 
 Living with  COVID-19  means that it’s no longer a surprise to catch the virus before or during our trips. 
 Insurance companies have extended their coverage to include medical expenses incurred overseas. 
 The companies may also require you to test negative after you’ve purchased your policy, but this expense of testing  is usually not covered . 
 Note: COVID-19 coverage is usually for the period before and during the trip, so you need to check the policy to ensure that catching COVID-19 after your trip is covered! 
 If you really catch the virus  after the trip , you need to ensure that the symptoms or diagnosis are within 14 days of your return to Singapore. 
 Last but not least, you will be expected to have the following supporting documents when making your claims: 
 
 
 
 Period Where You Get COVID-19 What To Do Supporting Documents 
 
 
 
 
 Before Trip Show your insurer documentary proof that your claims for any prepaid expenses are either denied or partially refunded. E.g. hotel booking, transport, car rental - Original receipts and replies of the respective bookings, and any denial or partial refund 
- Positive COVID-19 result 
 
 
 During Trip Show your insurer documentary proof of all expenses incurred from getting COVID-19 overseas - Positive COVID-19 result 
- Doctor's memo on you catching the virus and the recommended treatment you receive 
- Any bills incurred, medical reports and inpatient receipts or discharge letter 
- Vaccination status and notarised 
- Flight itinerary and boarding pass (if have 
 
 
 
 
 After Trip If your insurer covers COVID-19: 
Varies 
 
 If your insurer didn't cover COVID-19: 
Visit a testing facility or clinic to get a subsidised rate for medicine and consultation. 
 
Make health insurance claims via MediShield Life, Integrated Shield plans or private health insurance. The same set of documents above 
 
 
 

   Read more: 
 
 8 Best Travel Credit Cards to Book Flight Tickets and Hotels With 
 The Travel Data Guide You Need For Data Roaming & Portable Wi-Fi! 
 Ultimate Digital Multi-Currency Accounts Comparison: YouTrip vs Revolut vs Instarem vs Wise vs Wirex (2022) 
 
 Back to top 
 
 What Is Not Covered By Travel Insurance? 
 Insurance  is created to provide an additional layer of protection, and travel insurance is made to protect you when unexpected situations arise before and during your trips. 
 So, there are events and activities that are not covered as  they involve a certain level of risks  and  you would’ve learned about these risks before participating in any . 
 These events and activities will potentially lead to a  rejection of claims : 
 
 Taking part in high-risk activities such as skydiving, cliff jumping and bungee jumping & fighting competitions; 
 Incidents that occurred when you’re under the influence of alcohol or drugs. For example, you met a car accident because you were drunk driving; 
 You or your travel buddy has a pre-existing medical condition. For example, an injury sustained before the trip and became serious when you’re overseas; 
 Not making your police report within 24 hours of the incident, including loss of baggage or personal belonging. 
 
 What Happens If My Claim Is Rejected or Denied? 
 You can appeal, but it may not always be successful. 
 So, the lesson here is to gather your documents as soon as you can, not miss out on anything and provide more if the insurer requests for closer review of the claim. 
 Make Your Claims Within 30 Days 
 As a general suggestion, try not to make your claims beyond 30 days after the incident happened. 
 A claim should be made as soon as you’ve collected all supporting documents that are required. 
 If you’re ever in doubt, feel free to reach out to the  Seedly Community ! 
 
 Back to top 
 Related Articles: 
 
 Insurance: How To Review & Why You Should 
 The Best Car Insurance Guide in Singapore: Promotions, Comparisons Etc. 
 The Best “Insurance” You Can Have: Preparing For Emergencies 
 The Travel Data Guide You need For Data Roaming & Portable Wi-Fi! 
 8 Best Travel Credit Cards to Book Flight Tickets and Hotels With 
 

https://blog.seedly.sg/how-to-claim-travel-insurance/