HDB BTO May 2022 Sales Launch Prices 
 Looking to BTO soon? 
 The prices for the May 2022 HDB Build to Order (BTO) Sales Launch are finally out! 
 Interested in applying? 
 We did an in-depth analysis of the  May 2022 HDB BTO launch  to help Singaporeans make a smarter decision about getting home! 
 
 After you read that come back to this article if you have carefully considered your personal and financial decision and made the decision to apply for an  HDB BTO  flat! 
 
 BTO Application Process: What Are the Steps for Applying BTO? 
 
 Think that buying your first  HDB BTO  flat is daunting? 
 Spent hours on end researching and trying to understand the application process? 
 We  gotchu . 
 Here’s how you can  apply for your first BTO . 
 
 1) Check HDB BTO Flat Eligibility? 
 You and your partner need to fulfil the following criteria: 
 HDB BTO Citizenship and Age: 
 
 At least one of the applicants is a Singaporean 
 The other applicant is either a Singaporean or a Singapore Permanent Resident. 
 Either or both of the applicants are 21 years or older 
 
 HDB BTO Income Ceiling: 
 
 Your combined income does not exceed $14,000 (Special cases will be mentioned in the description of the launch) 
 This income ceiling is $21,000 for a multi-generation/extended family applying for a  3Gen flat 
 
 HDB BTO Property Ownership Conditions: 
 
 You do not own other local or overseas property 
 You have not sold any property within the last 30 months 
 You have not bought more than one new HDB/Design, Build and Sell Scheme (DBSS) flat or  Executive Condominium (EC)  before. 
 You have not received more than one  CPF Housing grant  thus far.
 
 Or, you’ve only bought one of those properties and have only received one CPF Housing Grant before. 
 
 
 
 HDB Eligibility Check 
 But before you even start applying for one, complete this  survey  to check your eligibility! 
 2) Sort Out Your Financing for the Flat 
 
 Ensure that you have enough to pay the initial cost. 
 If you are purchasing your flat from HDB: 
 
 
 
 Stage Payment Due Mode of Payment 
 
 
 
 
 Submitting your application $10 Credit Card 
 
 
 Booking a flat Option fee ($500 - $2,000) NETS 
 
 
 Signing of agreement for lease • Stamp duty 
• Downpayment • Cashier's order 
• CPF 
 
 
 Collection of keys • Stamp duty and legal fees 
• Home Protection Scheme 
• Fire Insurance 
• Balance of the purchase price • Cashier's order 
• CPF 
 
 
 

 If you are purchasing a DBSS flat or EC from a developer: 
 
 
 
 Stage Payment Due Mode of Payment 
 
 
 
 
 Submitting your application Determined by developer Determined by developer 
 
 
 Booking a flat and signing the Option to Purchase (OTP) Option fee - 5% of purchase price (goes to the cash portion of the downpayment) • Cash 
• Cashier's order 
• Cheque 
 
 
 Signing Sale and Purchase Agreement • Balance downpayment 
• 1% to 3% legal fee and stamp duty • Cash 
• Cashier's orde 
• Cheque 
• CPF 
 
 
 Collection of keys If paying installments using CPF savings: 
• Home Protection Scheme* 
• Fire Insurance* 
The developer will inform you of any other payments to make • Cash 
• Cashier's orde 
• Cheque 
• CPF 
 
 
 *Not applicable for ECs 
 
 
 

 You will need to apply for the  HDB Loan Eligibility (HLE) letter  if you are looking to take a loan from HDB. 
 You will need this HLE letter during the Booking of Flat (selecting your flat). 
 If you prefer not to use an HDB CPF Loan, you can also approach your preferred bank for a loan. 
 You will need a valid  Letter Of Offer  from the banks before signing the Agreement of Lease. 
 
 3) HDB BTO Selection: Look Out for New BTO Launches and Apply! 
 Keep yourself updated for BTO launches and  apply  here. 
 
 A  $10  application fee is required for the application. 
 
 Make sure you think it through because a  break-up after you BTO-ed  means you’ll need to pay a hefty amount… 
 
 4) Check the Results of Your Application for Your HDB BTO 
 When the application period ends, your queue position will be  balloted . 
 The application result will be sent to you via  email or post . 
 You can also check the status of it  online  too. 
 Applicants will be invited to select a flat according to the balloted queue number. 
 Whether or not you get your chance to select a flat depends on the number of flats available when it reaches your queue number. 
 
 5) Paying the HDB Option Fee 
 If you’re lucky enough to be able to select the flat you want, you’ll need to pay the  Option Fee . 
 A valid  HLE letter  is required when selecting a flat if you are taking a loan from HDB. 
 6) Agreement of Lease or Key Collection: HDB Loan Downpayment and More 
 The next step would be to either sign the agreement for lease or collect the keys for the flat, This will occur a few months after selecting a flat. 
 The signing of an agreement for lease is for flats that are still under construction, while key collection is for flats that are already completed. 
 Also, this is the stage where you pay for the  downpayment, legal fees, and stamp fees . 
 Not to mention that a valid HLE or Letter of Offer from the bank is required at this stage. 
 All the best! 
 Got Questions About Getting an HDB BTO Flat? 
 Just head over to  Seedly  and start a discussion. 
 We’ve got thousands of community members discussing and answering these types of questions! 

https://blog.seedly.sg/singapore-step-by-step-guide-applying-bto-hdb/